Refactor(eos_cli_config_gen, eos_designs)!: Add speed values to interfaces (#5692)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: docs/porting-guides/6.x.x.md

---
# This title is used for search results
title: Porting Guide for Ansible AVD 6.x.x
---
<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2025-2026 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

# Porting Guide for Ansible AVD 6.x.x

Major releases of AVD can contain breaking changes. This porting guide addresses how to update your inventory
and playbooks to be compatible with new default behaviors and changed data models when upgrading from AVD 5.x versions.

Users of `eos_designs` need to consider the changes in `eos_cli_config_gen` when using structured configuration.

## Changes to role arista.avd.eos_designs

### Adding pool of valid values to interface speed

> #### `default_interfaces[].mlag_interfaces_speed` and `default_interfaces[].uplink_interface_speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `default_interfaces.[].mlag_interfaces_speed` and `default_interfaces.[].uplink_interface_speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool
```

> In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to default_interfaces.mlag_interfaces_speed and default_interfaces.uplink_interface_speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to default_interfaces.[].mlag_interfaces_speed and default_interfaces.[].uplink_interface_speed.
```

> As of AVD 6.0.0, default_interfaces.mlag_interfaces_speed and default_interfaces.uplink_interface_speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of AVD 6.0.0, default_interfaces.[].mlag_interfaces_speed and default_interfaces.[].uplink_interface_speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

> #### `adapter_config.speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `<custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool
```

> In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to adapter_config.speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to <custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed.
```

> In AVD 5.0.0 we could give any string values to adapter_config.speed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to adapter_config.speed..
```

> As of AVD 6.0.0, adapter_config.speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of AVD 6.0.0, <custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

> As of AVD 6.0.0 we have added a pool of valid values from which the value will be assigned to adapter_config.speed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of AVD 6.0.0, adapter_config.speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

Reviewer 2: same elsewhere

> #### `network_services[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `<network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool
```

> In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to network_services[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to <network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed.
```

> As of AVD 6.0.0, network_services[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of AVD 6.0.0, <network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

#### `node_type.uplink_interface_speed`, `node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed`, `node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed`, `node_type_l3_interfaces[].speed` and `node_type_l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to node_type.uplink_interface_speed, node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed, node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed, node_type_l3_interfaces[].speed and node_type_l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed.

> As of AVD 6.0.0, node_type.uplink_interface_speed, node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed, node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed, node_type_l3_interfaces[].speed and node_type_l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: Not sure though if using abstracted paths like `node_type.uplink_interface_speed` (that are not the real paths) is clear or if we should use actual paths instead (like `default_interfaces.[].uplink_interface_speed`, `<node_type_keys.key>.defaults.uplink_interface_speed`, `<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].nodes.[].uplink_interface_speed`, `<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].uplink_interface_speed`, `<node_type_keys.key>.nodes.[].uplink_interface_speed`)

```suggestion
#### `node_type.uplink_interface_speed`, `node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed`, `node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed`, `node_type.l3_interfaces[].speed` and `node_type.l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to node_type.uplink_interface_speed, node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed, node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed, node_type.l3_interfaces[].speed and node_type.l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed.

As of AVD 6.0.0, node_type.uplink_interface_speed, node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed, node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed, node_type.l3_interfaces[].speed and node_type.l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

#### `p2p_links[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to p2p_links[].speed.

As of AVD 6.0.0, p2p_links[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

## Changes to role `arista.avd.eos_cli_config_gen`

> ### `ethernet_interfaces[].speed` and `management_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `ethernet_interfaces.[].speed` and `management_interfaces.[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool
```

Author: We generally write it this way `aaa_settings.accounting.commands[].default[].methods[].method` you can check it here https://github.com/aristanetworks/avd/blob/devel/docs/porting-guides/6.x.x.md

> In AVD 5.0.0 , any string value could be assigned to ethernet_interfaces[].speed and management_interfaces[].speed items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to ethernet_interfaces.[].speed and management_interfaces.[].speed items.
```

> As of AVD 6.0.0, ethernet_interfaces[].speed and management_interfaces[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of AVD 6.0.0, ethernet_interfaces.[].speed and management_interfaces.[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

      ipv4_acl: IPV4
```

### Adding pool of valid values to interface speed

#### `default_interfaces[].mlag_interfaces_speed` and `default_interfaces[].uplink_interface_speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

> In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to default_interfaces.mlag_interfaces_speed and default_interfaces.uplink_interface_speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to `default_interfaces[].mlag_interfaces_speed` and `default_interfaces[].uplink_interface_speed`.
```

> As of AVD 6.0.0, default_interfaces.mlag_interfaces_speed and default_interfaces.uplink_interface_speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of AVD 6.0.0, `default_interfaces[].mlag_interfaces_speed` and `default_interfaces[].uplink_interface_speed` must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

#### `<custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to <custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed.

> As of AVD 6.0.0, <custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to `<custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed`.

As of AVD 6.0.0, `<custom_connected_endpoints_keys.key>[].adapters[].speed` must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

#### `<network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to <network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed.

> As of AVD 6.0.0, <network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to `<network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed`.

As of AVD 6.0.0, `<network_services_keys.name>[].vrfs[].l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed` must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

> #### `node_type.uplink_interface_speed`, `node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed`, `node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed`, `node_type.l3_interfaces[].speed` and `node_type.l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

Reviewer: Would referencing variables like `node_type.uplink_interface_speed` be clear to the end users as this key path is not the one that actually exists in input data model?

Should we reference actual paths instead for the clarity?

```code
<node_type_keys.key>.defaults.uplink_interface_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].nodes.[].uplink_interface_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].uplink_interface_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.nodes.[].uplink_interface_speed

<node_type_keys.key>.defaults.uplink_switch_interface_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].nodes.[].uplink_switch_interface_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].uplink_switch_interface_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.nodes.[].uplink_switch_interface_speed

<node_type_keys.key>.defaults.mlag_interfaces_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].nodes.[].mlag_interfaces_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].mlag_interfaces_speed
<node_type_keys.key>.nodes.[].mlag_interfaces_speed

<node_type_keys.key>.defaults.l3_interfaces.[].speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].nodes.[].l3_interfaces.[].speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].l3_interfaces.[].speed
<node_type_keys.key>.nodes.[].l3_interfaces.[].speed

<node_type_keys.key>.defaults.l3_port_channels.[].member_interfaces.[].speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].nodes.[].l3_port_channels.[].member_interfaces.[].speed
<node_type_keys.key>.node_groups.[].l3_port_channels.[].member_interfaces.[].speed
<node_type_keys.key>.nodes.[].l3_port_channels.[].member_interfaces.[].speed
```

Author: I am not sure lets ask @gmuloc or @ClausHolbechArista ?

Author: Updated

In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to node_type.uplink_interface_speed, node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed, node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed, node_type.l3_interfaces[].speed and node_type.l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed.

As of AVD 6.0.0, node_type.uplink_interface_speed, node_type.uplink_switch_interface_speed, node_type.mlag_interfaces_speed, node_type.l3_interfaces[].speed and node_type.l3_port_channels[].member_interfaces[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

#### `p2p_links[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

> In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to p2p_links[].speed.
> 
> As of AVD 6.0.0, p2p_links[].speed must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0, any string value could be assigned to `p2p_links[].speed`.

As of AVD 6.0.0, `p2p_links[].speed` must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

## Changes to role `arista.avd.eos_cli_config_gen`

> ### `ethernet_interfaces[].speed` and `management_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

Reviewer: Do we not want to group speed-related changes for `eos_cli_config_gen` the same way we grouped them for `eos_designs`? Instead of putting specific changes right under the "root" of the config_gen changes?

```
### Adding pool of valid values to interface speed

#### <specific key that changed> ...
```

Author: For `eos_cli_config_gen` there were only 2 keys so thought of keeping it this way, but if you like we can change it.

Author: Updated

> In AVD 5.0.0 , any string value could be assigned to ethernet_interfaces[].speed and management_interfaces[].speed items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AVD 5.0.0 , any string value could be assigned to `ethernet_interfaces[].speed` and `management_interfaces[].speed` items.

As of AVD 6.0.0, `ethernet_interfaces[].speed` and `management_interfaces[].speed` must be assigned a value from the predefined pool of valid values.
```

## Changes to role `arista.avd.eos_cli_config_gen`

> ### `ethernet_interfaces[].speed` and `management_interfaces[].speed` requires value assignment from valid values pool

Reviewer 3: 1/ These should not come first (the table with removal of deprecated models should be first)

2/ please rather than these paragraphs lets make one table in a section called "New `eos_cli_config_gen` schema restrictions`

and you give the key in one column and "added valid_values" in a second column 

```
| Key | Restriction |
| --- | ----------- |
| `foo` | Added valid_values |
```

Author: Updated
